added integration for symnatec email security (#36804)
demisto/content: Packs/SymantecEmailSecurity/Integrations/SymantecEmailSecurity/README.md

## Use cases
1. **IOC Management:** Manage IOCs for email threats across domains: list, add, update, delete, or renew IOCs.
2. **Data Feeds:** Retrieve threat data (e.g., malware, spam, clicks) for insights into email security events.
3. **Email Queue Monitoring:** View queue statistics per domain to monitor email processing and delays.
4. **Quarantine Actions:** List, preview, release, or delete quarantined emails to manage potentially harmful content.
5. **Allow and Block Lists:** Maintain lists for permitted or restricted senders/domains: retrieve, add/update, or delete items.
6. **Fetch Incidents:** Auto-fetch incidents and quarantine-specific threats to streamline response and compliance.

## Configure Symantec Email Security Cloud on Cortex XSOAR

1. Navigate to **Settings** > **Integrations** > **Servers & Services**.
2. Search for Symantec Email Security Cloud.
3. Click **Add instance** to create and configure a new integration instance.

    | **Parameter** | **Description** | **Required** |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | Server URL - IOC |  |  |
    | Server URL - Data Feeds |  |  |
    | Server URL - Email Queue |  |  |

>     | Server URL - Quarantine | The Quarantine API is available for United States \(us\) and European Union \(eu\). |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Server URL - Quarantine | The Quarantine API is available for the United States \(us\) and European Union \(eu\). |  |
```

    | Query - Email Quarantine | A search criterion that can be used to filter emails that match only certain conditions based on email metadata. |  |
    | Type - Email Quarantine | A string used to filter emails based on the quarantine type. |  |
    | Admin Domain - mail Quarantine | Returns the emails quarantined for users in a particular domain. If this parameter is present and has a valid domain name, then items from only that domain are returned. If it has a value of \`ALL\`, then all domains administered by the user are searched and emails quarantined for users in those domains are returned. Note: Can only be used by an administrator user. |  |

4. Click **Test** to validate the URLs, token, and connection.

## Commands

You can execute these commands from the Cortex XSOAR CLI, as part of an automation, or in a playbook.
After you successfully execute a command, a DBot message appears in the War Room with the command details.

### symantec-email-security-ioc-list

***
List the IOCs that apply to a specific domain or to all domains.

#### Base Command

`symantec-email-security-ioc-list`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | domain | Run the command for a specific domain or all domains with 'global'. Use `symantec-email-security-email-queue-list` to get a list of available domains. Default is global. | Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| domain | Run the command for a specific domain. For all domains use'global'. Use `symantec-email-security-email-queue-list` to get a list of available domains. Default is global. | Optional |
```

| limit | The maximum number of records to return. Default is 50. | Optional |
| all_results | Whether to retrieve all the results by overriding the default limit. Possible values are: true, false. | Optional |

#### Context Output

| **Path** | **Type** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.iocBlackListId | String | ID of the IOC. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.iocType | String | Type of the IOC value. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.iocValue | String | Value of the IOC. |

> | SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.status | String | Wether the IOC is active. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.status | String | Whether the IOC is active. |
```

| SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.description | String | Description of the IOC. |

> | SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.emailDirection | String | Email direction can be one of: I=Inbound, O=Outbound or B=Both. |
> | SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.remediationAction | String | Remediation Action can be one of: B=Block and delete, Q=Quarantine, M=Redirect, T=Tag subject or H=Append header. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.emailDirection | String | Email direction. Can be one of: I=Inbound, O=Outbound or B=Both. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.remediationAction | String | Remediation Action. Can be one of: B=Block and delete, Q=Quarantine, M=Redirect, T=Tag subject or H=Append header. |
```

| SymantecEmailSecurity.IOC.expiryDate | String | Retention period for an IOC until it is removed from the system. |

#### Command example
```!symantec-email-security-ioc-list```
#### Context Example
```json
{
    "SymantecEmailSecurity": {
        "IOC": {
            "description": "url to block",
            "emailDirection": "O",
            "expiryDate": "2024-01-01 00:00:00.0",
            "iocBlackListId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
            "iocType": "url",
            "iocValue": "https://www.example.com",
            "remediationAction": "H",
            "status": "Active"
        }
    }
}
```

#### Human Readable Output

>### IOC(s)
>|ID|Type|Value|Status|Description|Email Direction|Remediation Action|Expiry Date|
>|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
>| 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 | subject | Test | Active | Test | inbound | quarantine | 2024-01-01 00:00:00.0 |
>| 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 | url | https:<span>//</span>www.example.com | Active | url to block | outbound | append header | 2024-01-01 00:00:00.0 |

### symantec-email-security-ioc-action

***

> Add, update, delete and renew multiple IOCs through the `entry_id` or a single through the rest of the parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add, update, delete and renew multiple IOCs through the `entry_id` or a single IOC through the rest of the parameters.
```

#### Base Command

`symantec-email-security-ioc-action`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | domain | Run the command for a specific domain or all domains with 'global'. Use `symantec-email-security-email-queue-list` to get a list of available domains. Default is global. | Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| domain | Run the command for a specific domain. For all domains use 'global'. Use `symantec-email-security-email-queue-list` to get a list of available domains. Default is global. | Optional |
```

#### Context Output

There is no context output for this command.
#### Command example
```!symantec-email-security-ioc-action action=add ioc_type=subject ioc_value=Test123 description=test email_direction=inbound remediation_action=block_and_delete```
#### Human Readable Output

>## All IOC(s) were uploaded successfully.

### symantec-email-security-ioc-renew

***
Renew all IOCs previously uploaded and still in the database, whether active or inactive, for a specific domain or all domains. The default retention period for IOCs is 7 days and the maximum is 30 days. After 30 days IOCs are retained in an inactive state for another 14 days. If an organization receives new email containing previously block listed IOCs, then the IOCs can renewed in the block list within this grace period. Thereafter, IOCs are removed from the system and must be uploaded again to remain in the block list.

#### Base Command

`symantec-email-security-ioc-renew`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | domain | Run the command for a specific domain or all domains with 'global'. Use `symantec-email-security-email-queue-list` to get a list of available domains. Default is global. | Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| domain | Run the command for a specific domain. For all domains use 'global'. Use `symantec-email-security-email-queue-list` to get a list of available domains. Default is global. | Optional |
```

#### Context Output

There is no context output for this command.
#### Command example
```!symantec-email-security-ioc-renew```
#### Human Readable Output

>## All IOC(s) were renewed.

### symantec-email-security-data-list

***
Retrieves data feeds from Symantec Email Security.cloud. Available feeds: 'all' (metadata for all scanned email), 'malware' (malware-containing email data), 'threat-isolation' (events from URL and Attachment Isolation), 'clicktime' (metadata from end-user clicks on rewritten URLs), 'anti-spam' (spam detection metadata), and 'ec-reports' (contextual information about emails blocked by Anti-Malware service).

#### Base Command

`symantec-email-security-data-list`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| feed_type | The type of the email data feed to retrieve. Possible values are: all, malware, threat-isolation, clicktime, anti-spam, ec-reports. Default is all. | Optional |

> | start_from | Start time from for reading metadata. Accepted formats: any substring of yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ssZ, epoch 1720617001, relative 1 day 2h 3 minute. Max start time is 1095 days before current date. Default is 3 days. | Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| start_from | Start time for reading metadata. Accepted formats: any substring of yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ssZ, epoch 1720617001, relative 1 day 2h 3 minute. Max start time is 1095 days before current date. Default is 3 days. | Optional |
```

>|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
>| 10000 | New Email Quarantine Account | bounce-newaccount-verp-00000000000000000000@eu.quarantine.symantec.com | hello@world | 0.0.0.0 | 0.0.0.0.googleusercontent.com | Unknown00000000.data-None,<br/>https:<span>//</span>www.example.com-1 | {'Severity': 'LOW', 'Security Service': 'Anti-Malware', 'Detection Method': 'Skeptic Heuristics', 'Verdict': 'Malware', 'Action': 'Block'} |

### symantec-email-security-email-queue-list

***
Returns a list of domains owned by the customer, with queue statistics for each domain.

#### Base Command

`symantec-email-security-email-queue-list`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| domains | Comma-separated list of domains to retrieve. Leave empty to retrieve all domains. | Optional |
| limit | The maximum number of records to return. Default is 50. | Optional |
| all_results | Whether to retrieve all the results by overriding the default limit. Possible values are: true, false. | Optional |

#### Context Output

| **Path** | **Type** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.TotalMessagesInbound | Number | Total number inbound messages in queue, for all domains. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.TotalMessagesInbound | Number | Total number of inbound messages in the queue, for all domains. |
```

> | SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.TotalMessagesOutbound | Number | Total number of outbound messages in queue, for all domains. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.TotalMessagesOutbound | Number | Total number of outbound messages in the queue, for all domains. |
```

| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.MeanTimeInQueueInbound | Number | Average \(mean\) queue wait for inbound messages, for all domains. Measured in seconds. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.MeanTimeInQueueOutbound | Number | Average \(mean\) queue wait for outbound messages, for all domains. Measured in seconds. |

> | SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.LongestTimeInInbound | Number | How long the oldest message in the inbound queue has been queue, across all domains. Measured in seconds. |
> | SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.LongestTimeInOutbound | Number | How long the oldest message in the outbound queue has been queue, across all domains. Measured in seconds. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.LongestTimeInInbound | Number | How long the oldest message in the inbound queue has been queued, across all domains. Measured in seconds. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.LongestTimeInOutbound | Number | How long the oldest message in the outbound queue has been queued, across all domains. Measured in seconds. |
```

| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.Name | String | Name of the domain. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.ReceiveQueueCountInbound | Number | Number of inbound messages waiting to be processed. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.ReceiveQueueCountOutbound | Number | Number of outbound messages waiting to be processed. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.DeliveryQueueCountInbound | Number | Number of inbound messages that have been processed and are waiting to be delivered. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.DeliveryQueueCountOutbound | Number | Number of outbound messages that have been processed and are waiting to be delivered. |

> | SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.LongestTimeInReceiveQueueInbound | Number | Oldest inbound message in queue waiting to be processed. Measured in seconds. |
> | SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.LongestTimeInReceiveQueueOutbound | Number | Oldest outbound message in queue waiting to be processed. Measured in seconds. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.LongestTimeInReceiveQueueInbound | Number | Oldest inbound message in the queue waiting to be processed. Measured in seconds. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.EmailQueue.Domains.LongestTimeInReceiveQueueOutbound | Number | Oldest outbound message in the queue waiting to be processed. Measured in seconds. |
```

| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.email_date_received | Date | Date the email was received. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.quarantine_info.direction | String | Direction of the email. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.quarantine_info.quarantine_type | String | Quarantine type of the email, can be one of: SPAM, NEWSLETTER, CI, CO, II, IO, COMPLIANCE, DLP. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.email_is_viewed | Bool | Whether the email was viewed. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.email_is_released | Bool | Whether the email was released. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.quarantine_reason | String | Reason why the email was quarantined. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.email_sender | String | Sender of the email. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.service_type | String | Service type used for the email. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.master_recipient | String | Recipient of the email. |
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.user_id | Number | ID of the user. |

> | SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.email_envelope_sender | String | Address to respond in the case of bounce messages or errors. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SymantecEmailSecurity.QuarantineEmail.metadata.email_envelope_sender | String | Address to respond to in case of bounce messages or errors. |
```

                "x-atlassian-mail-transaction-id": "xxx",
                "x-brightmail-tracker": "xxx",
                "x-msfbl": "xxx",
                "x-originating-ip": "[0.0.0.0]",
                "x-spamquarantineinfo": "spam detected heuristically",
                "x-spamquarantinereason": "Yes, hits=1.2 required=7.0 tests=newsletters: ,  newsletters: Newsletter detected: 5.12 >"
            },
            "message_id": "000"
        }
    }
}
```

#### Human Readable Output

>### Quarantine Email Preview
>|Date|From|To|Subject|
>|---|---|---|---|
>| Wed, 02 Oct 2024 04:37:01 +0000 | xxx | xxx | xxx |
>### Attachments
>|Name|Type|
>|---|---|
>| hello | world |
>### Body Parts
>|Content|
>|---|
>| xxx |
>| xxx |

### symantec-email-security-quarantine-email-release

***
Releases the set of quarantined emails specified in the request.

#### Base Command

`symantec-email-security-quarantine-email-release`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| message_ids | Comma-separated list of emails message IDs to release. Use `symantec-email-security-quarantine-email-list` to get a list of message IDs. | Required |

> | recipient | An email address to which the mails have to be released instead of the recipient users address. | Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| recipient | An email address to which the mails have to be released instead of the recipient user's address. | Optional |
```

            {
                "description": "url to block",
                "emailDirection": "O",
                "expiryDate": "2024-01-01 00:00:00.0",
                "iocBlackListId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
                "iocType": "url",
                "iocValue": "https://www.example.com",
                "remediationAction": "H",
                "status": "Active"
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

#### Human Readable Output

>### Block List Item(s)
>|Description|
>|---|
>| Test |
>| url to block |

### symantec-email-security-item-block-list-update

***
Allows a SUDULS (allow quarantine users to maintain their own lists of email addresses or domains) user to add or update an item to the block list.

#### Base Command

`symantec-email-security-item-block-list-update`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| suduls_user | Email address of the user for whom the entry should be added in the block list. | Required |
| item_id | ID of SUDULS item to be added/updated. Only required when updating an existing item. Use `symantec-email-security-item-block-list` to get a list of items. | Optional |

> | email_or_domain | Email address or domain to be added in the block list. | Required |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| email_or_domain | Email address or domain to be added to the block list. | Required |
```
